# RFC 0000: The Request for Comments Process

| Information                 | Details           |
| --------------------------- | ----------------- |
| RFC document number         | RFC 0000          |
| Feature name                | `rfc_process`     |
| Start date                  | 2020-09-19        |
| Implementation Pull Request | To be implemented |
| Tracking Issue              | To be implemented |
| Status                      | **Pending**       |

## Summary

In this *Request for Comments* (RFC), we define and describe the RFC rationale
and process, to pave way for future developments of an application to benefit
students of University College London (UCL) by providing convenient utilities.

## Motivation

An *Request for Comments* process allows participation by community members
that includes the users of the application. This can help to introduce new
ideas, improve design and hopefully inspire more community members to
contribute to the application's design development. It is expected and intended
that this RFC and RFC 0000 `rfc_template` serve as the basis for future RFCs.

## Guide-level Explanation

We propose the *Request for Comments* process, where a community member (the
"RFC author"):

1. Proposes a change / feature by specifying a *Request for Comments* document
   (RFC document) by submitting a Pull Request (PR) to the `rfcs` repository.

    1. The RFC author shall leave out the RFC document number as RFC 0000,
       which will get assigned one by the design / implementation team once the
       RFC is accepted. Then, the RFC document should be updated to reflect the
       assigned RFC document number.

2. Reviewed by contributors, maintainers and community members for
   clarifications, concerns and comments.

3. When a contributor on the design / development team feels that the RFC is
   ready for decision, they can initiate a **Final Comment Period** (FCP)
   process which lasts 10 calendar days, with the decision to either
   **accept**, **reject** or **postpone**, allowing for any objections by
   contributors, maintainers and community members.

    - A checklist containing members of relevant teams should be made.
    - A team member shall tick the checkbox for their handle to vote "*for*"
      the FCP decision, do nothing if they wish to abstain, and explicitly
      *comment* to raise concerns to *object* to the FCP decision.
    - If the FCP decision is to **accept**, we need 2/3 team members to vote
      *for* the FCP decision to accept the RFC (i.e. check their boxes).
      Otherwise, the RFC is **closed** (or a team member can reinitiate the FCP
      process to vote to **postpone**).

        - If the FCP decision is to **reject**, we need 2/3 team members to
          vote *for* the FCP decision to reject the RFC (i.e. check their
          boxes). Otherwise, the RFC is **postponed**.
        - If the FCP decision is to **postpone**, we need 2/3 team members vote
          *for* the FCP decision to postpone the RFC. Otherwise, **the FCP
          process is aborted**.

4. When an RFC is **accepted**, the PR shall be assigned an
   **RFC document number**, the `RFC document number` field updated, the
   `status` field changed to "**Accepted**", and then merged into the `rfcs`
   repository.

5. When an RFC is **rejected**, the PR shall be closed, and the `status` field
   in the summary table in updated to "**Rejected**".

6. When an RFC is **postponed**, the PR shall be closed, but may be reopened in
   a future date when the time is deemed appropriate by a design / development
   team member, in which they will need to reinitiate the FCP process. The
   `status` field in the summary table shall be updated to "**Postponed**".

7. Whenever the FCP duration is expired (*not* aborted), whichever design is
   made, a final comment must be made by a design / development team justifying
   the decision. Given the limited resources, we cannot afford for appellation
   by the RFC author, with the exception on a case-by-case basis where a design
   / development team member allows so.

8. If the RFC is accepted, it does not necessarily mean that the change /
   feature will be *implemented* in some time, subject to available design and
   development resources. It is up to the design / development team members to
   decide when to start the implementation of the RFC.

9. When design / development team members do decide to begin implementation of
   the RFC, it is *required* that a **Tracking Issue** be opened in the
   responsible design / development repository to track the progress of the
   design and implementation of the change, including any issues related to
   design, implementation and documentation.

### Tracking Issue

A tracking issue shall present as an issue on the implementation repository,
with:

1. **Issue title**: format: "Tracking issue for `feature_name` (RFC nnnn)"

   - *Example*: "Tracking issue for Initial Minimal Viable Product (RFC 0003)"
   - Please use Title Case for the feature name!

2. **Issue Body**:

   1. **Link to RFC**, e.g. "RFC nnnn: [repo/rfcs#0003](#)"

   2. **Updates**: in table format, date in YYYY-MM-DD format

      | Date       | Issue Link          |
      | ---------- | ------------------- |
      | 2020-09-19 | [repo/rfcs#0003](#) |

   3. **Instruction for community members who want to help out**:

      - Link to open issues; and
      - Who to contact/ping for guidance (e.g. by GitHub handles).

   4. **Blocking Stabilization**:

      1. **Design**: checklist of design issues, possibly link to issues.
      2. **Implementation**: link to implementation PR(s), if it (they) exist.
         1. Please list and link an "remaining implementation issues," if any.
      3. **Documentation**: link to documentation PR(s), if it (they) exist.

## Reference-level Explanation

Omitted, see Guidance-level Explanation.

## Drawbacks

- Maintaining tracking issues require daily/weekly triages, and possibly triage
  meetings between members.

## Rationale and Alternatives

None.

## Scope and Effort

- We need to setup an RFC repository (**done**).
- *Ideally*, we'd want an CI RFC bot, like the one used in the Rust repository
  (takes quite some effort).
- Required maintenance by team members for triaging and tracking issues.

## Prior Art

The Tracking Issue RFC is modeled after those in
[rust-lang/rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/).

## Unresolved Questions

- How to better guide interested community members to help?
- How to document progress of development?
- How to track dependencies between RFCs? e.g. RFC 0005 may be blocked on RFC
  0003?

    - What about cyclic dependencies?

## Future Possibilities

- Possible automated CI bots.

## References

1. `@withoutboats`, “Tracking issue for const generics (RFC 2000) ·
   Issue #44580 · rust-lang/rust,”
   *#44580: Tracking issue for const generics (RFC 2000)*, 15-Sep-2017.
   [Online]. Available: <https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/44580>.
   [Accessed: 19-Sep-2020].

## Addendum

An example *Tracking Issue*, issue body uses raw markdown syntax to illustrate
(adapted from <https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/44580> [1]):

Issue Title: **Tracking issue for Initial Minimal Viable Product (RFC 0003)**

```text
Link to RFC 0003: [repo/rfcs#0003](#)

### Updates

| Date       | Issue Link                    |
| ---------- | ----------------------------- |
| 2020-09-19 | Initial implementation #12345 |

### Want to Help?

- Please look at
  [open initial_minimial_viable_product issues](impl-repo/issues/).
- Please ping @abcd or @efgh for help or for more info.

### Blocking Stabilization

#### Design

- Triage features and prioritize them via a MoSCoW list.
- ...

#### Implementation

- First rough implementation at #123.
- ...

##### Remaining Implementation Issues

1. xxx
2. yyy

#### Documentation

- In-code documentation at #123.
- Design docs at #124.
```
