# RFC 0000: Request for Comments Template

| Information                 | Details                                                                                                      |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| RFC document number         | RFC 0000 (to be assigned)                                                                                    |
| Feature name                | `rfc_template` (please fill in with a unique identifier)                                                     |
| Start date                  | 2020-09-19 (today's date, in YYYY-MM-DD format)                                                              |
| Implementation Pull Request | N/A (links to relevant PRs in relevant repositories, if multiple separate by comma, iff the RFC is accepted) |
| Tracking Issue              | N/A (link to tracking issue for PR, iff the RFC is accepted)                                                 |
| Status                      | **Pending** (the RFC can be either: Accepted, Rejected or Postponed)                                         |
| Related RFCs                | RFC mmmm, RFC nnnn (write None if you don't want to specify, delimit by comma)                               |

## Summary

One paragraph explanation of the feature. This RFC template is adapted from
<https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/0000-template.md> [1].

## Motivation

Please detail the motivation for the change:

- Why should we do this?
- What use cases does this RFC support?
- What is the expected outcome?

## Guide-level Explanation

Explain the proposal as if it is already an existing change, and you are
introducing it to another new user. This typically means:

- Introducing new terminology (if necessary).
- Explain the change in terms of examples, diagrams and proof-of-concepts.
- Explain how users should *think about* and *interactive with* the change /
  feature – explain the *impact* to the user as clearly as possible.
- If applicable, provide sample notices/warnings/guides we can provide to new
  users and existing users alike, when and if the new change / feature is
  introduced.
- If applicable, describe how we can introduce this change to new users and
  existing users.

## Reference-level Explanation

This is the "technical" portion of the RFC. Explain the design for the change /
feature in sufficient *technical* detail, for any relevant systems and parts of
the application, including but not limited to:

- **Design**: the design process, the design outcome, the UI/UX considerations
  and iteration process; and
- **Ergonomics, Evaluation and Feedback**: how do we solicit feedback from
  possible user group studies, user interviews, etc.? What are the feedback
  mechanisms?
- **Front-end**: the front-end implications – technical challenges,
  interactions with existing UI elements, etc.
- **Back-end**: the back-end implications – technical challenges, what does the
  back-end need to support to enable this change / feature, etc.
- **Security** and **safety** (if applicable): what are the security and safety
  hazards that the change may pose? Would it allow unauthorized third-parties
  to gain access to personal information?
- **Legal** considerations: would this change cause any violations w.r.t. laws
  and regulations in various countries, for the users, the contributors and
  maintainers? This relates especially to data privacy laws (such as the GDPR),
  data storage and security laws, defamation laws, etc.
- **Ethical** and **inclusiveness** considerations: could this change have
  ethical issues? Are there issues and considerations related, but not limited
  to, internationalization *and* localization, high contrast, color blindness,
  screen reader support?

## Drawbacks

Why should we **not** accept this change? How might it negatively impact users?
How might it negatively impact maintainability (both technical maintenance and
community maintenance)?

## Rationale and Alternatives

- In the possible design space, why is this particular design the best?
- What other designs have you considered? What is the rationale and
  justification for choosing this over the alternatives? If possible, include a
  brief timeline for the design iteration and more importantly, *why* the
  changes between iterations and *why* the alternatives are not chosen.
- What is the impact of *not* doing this change?

## Scope and Effort

What is the intended *scope* of this change? How massive of a change would this
be?

## Prior Art

Discuss prior art – those that you deem good *and* bad – that is related to the
change. If possible, these can be presented as *case studies* so we can learn
from what is designed and executed well and stay away from those that are
flawed.

- For *feature* proposals: Does this feature exist in similar applications? If
  so, what do users of these applications think about this feature?
- For *community* and *organizational* proposals: Is this done by other
  open-source communities? What are their experiences?

Importantly, include any **resources** that aided and/or can aid in the further
development of this proposal, including but not limited to:

- Conference talks
- Papers
- Articles
- Blog posts
- Books
- Existing designs
- Existing applications
- User voices

You can specify the authors of the resources and provide links, but please do
**cite** them (via in-text citation) and specify the full citation in the
**References** section beneath, in **IEEE** format.

## Unresolved Questions

- What parts of the design do you expect that still needs more refinement
  before this RFC gets accepted?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation
  of this feature before the feature is stabilized (i.e. deployed in production
  and end users are able to use it)?
- What related issues that you consider are out-of-scope for this RFC that
  could be addressed in future?

## Future Possibilities

What would be some natural extensions, refinements, improvements and evolutions
of this RFC? How would these improve the project and application?

This is a good place to list ideas and inspirations that are out-of-scope for
this RFC but could be addressed in another in the future, but possibly related.

This section *shall not* be used to judge whether this RFC is to be accepted,
rejected or postponed.

## References

Use the **IEEE** reference format [2].

Please list the references here, and to cite them in-text, use [1] to cite
reference item 1, [1, 3] to cite references 1 and 3, [1-6] to cite references 1
through 6 inclusive. When you want to specify an author (or authors), use their
last name / organization name, as specified by the *IEEE Reference Guide* by
IEEE [2]. When there are more than three authors, use only the first author's
last name, and append "et al.", such as Doe, et al. [3].

1. Rust Contributors, “Rust Request for Comments Template,”
   *Rust Request for Comments Repository*, 26-Feb-2019. [Online]. Available:
   <https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/0000-template.md>.
   [Accessed: 19-Sep-2020].
2. IEEE, “IEEE Reference Guide,” *IEEE Author Center*, 2018. [Online].
   Available:
   <https://ieeeauthorcenter.ieee.org/wp-content/uploads/IEEE-Reference-Guide.pdf>.
   [Accessed: 19-Sep-2020].

## Addendum

Any additional resources or notes that you may wish to add that you can
eference in the text of the RFC but not want to interrupt the flow of the RFC.
